# Mandelbrot Set Renderer

This is a program using [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/) and [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) 4.5 that renders an
image of the [mandelbrot set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandelbrot_set) on a compatible GPU. I wrote this over a
few hours. There are definitely more interesting ways to render this fractal, but it was still pretty fun.

## Dependencies

To compile this program you will need the following:

- A standard C++20 compiler and run-time environment
- An implementation of the [Meson](https://mesonbuild.com/) build system and a compatible backend (e.g.,
  [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/))
- A copy of the SDL2 library and development header files

To run the program you need:

- A standard C++20 run-time environment
- A copy of the SDL2 library
- A working implementation of OpenGL 4.5 (or higher)

## Building

### Preparing the Build Environment

For ease of use, I've provided both Meson and the Ninja build backend as Python requirements. To install them this way
you should first prepare a virtual environment as follows:

```sh
# Prepare a Python virtual environment in the directory .venv
python3 -m venv .venv
```

Next, you'll need to activate the virtual environment (so that you don't install system-wide). The activation method
varies depending on your system and shell. For Bash run the following:

```sh
# Activate the virtual environment in the .venv directory
source .venv/bin/activate
```

At this point, you can install the build system by running:

```sh
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Configuring the Build System

With the build environment prepared, the next step is to configure the Meson build system. To do this, you need to
setup a build directory by running:

```sh
# Setup a new build directory named "build"
meson setup build
```

Next, you can configure your build. Despite being a fairly simple program there are a couple of project specific
options. These are the following:

| Option | Description | Default | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| colors | A feature that controls whether or not the renderer will display a color image. | `enabled` | `meson configure build -Dcolors=disabled` |
| window_width | The initial width of the output window in pixels. | 1920 pixels | `meson configure build -Dwindow_width=640` |
| window_height | The initial height of the output window in pixels. | 1080 pixels | `meson configure build -Dwindow_height=360` |

### Compiling

When everything is configured to your liking you can compile the usual way:

```sh
# Compile the targets described in the "build" directory.
meson compile -C build
```

### Installing

I don't think this program is really interesting enough to install, but you can still do so. As usual you can
install with:

```sh
# Install all the files described by the configuration located in "build".
# You can add --dry-run to determine what would be installed without actually performing the installation.
meson install -C build
```

## Acknowledgements

To properly load OpenGL 4.5, I'm using source code generated by [Glad](https://github.com/Dav1dde/glad). The generated
source code ([`include/glad/glad.h`](/include/glad/glad.h) and [`src/glad/glad.c`](/src/glad/glad.c)) are public
domain.

The Glad generator also provides a copy of `khrplatform.h` found at
[`include/KHR/khrplatform.h`](/include/KHR/khrplatform.h). This file is licensed as follows:

> Copyright (c) 2008-2018 The Khronos Group Inc.
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and/or associated
> documentation files (the "Materials"), to deal in the Materials without restriction, including without limitation
> the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Materials, and to
> permit persons to whom the Materials are furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
> Materials.
>
> THE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
> THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
> AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
> TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE MATERIALS OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
> MATERIALS.

## Licensing

Copyright (C) 2024 Alexander Rothman <[gnomesort@megate.ch](mailto:gnomesort@megate.ch)>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Affero General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with this program. If not, see
<[https://www.gnu.org/licenses/](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/)>.
